---
layout: post
title: overview 
date: 2024-02-17 21:01:00
description:  
tags:  
draft: true
categories: 
---

The focus of this site is about the design, analysis and implementation of
*practical* algorithms and systems that operate on encrypted data. The
*practical* here is important because it motivates a variety of
choices---ranging from the philosophical to the concrete---that have had a
major impact on the development of the field. This line of work started in
earnest in the early 2000's with the problem of "how to search on encrypted
data" and is currently at the stage where we can deploy commercial encrypted
database systems that can compete with plaintext systems.  

The road from the initial research question to where we are today has required
ideas and innovations from a multitude of fields and disciplines; some of which
have not been documented in research papers yet.  One of the goals of this site
is to properly document and explain the many decisions and ideas that have
shaped the field. 

This will include ideas from a variety of fields beyond cryptography, including
database theory and systems, algorithms and data structures, distributed
computing, statistics and machine learning, optimization and even complexity
theory. We'll cover topics ranging from [storage
engines](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database_engine) and [query
optimization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Query_optimization) to
[probabilistic graph models](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graphical_model),
[consensus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consensus_(computer_science)) and
the [planted clique](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planted_clique) problem.  

